RIP-FIXES-SYNC
by VaVooM
One more thing before we get
into your next assignments.
The results for
the international
travel writer's awards are in.
Congratulations, Caroline.
Honestly, this is a team win.
We all share this.
Actually, it's a team
third place win.
Third place?
Yep. It happens.
Now, I know you're all waiting
for your next assignments.
We can't be a travel magazine
without you travelling,
so Greece, Sao Paulo,
Bali, Nashville.
You stay.
I have a plum assignment
for you.
Carta de Amor.
Carta de what?
Yes. The Spanish Riviera.
I like that.
Tapas, beaches.
I can do a lot with that.
I know you can, but it's not
on the Spanish Riviera.
Brazil.
I'm gonna have to buy
a new swimsuit.
If you're done guessing,
it's in rural New Mexico.
Really?
Population: 2,500.
People?
Usually.
Is this because I took
third place?
No. Listen, you're
a terrific writer.
This is the kind of story
you need right now.
Human, sweet.
The 100th anniversary of the
Carta de Amor Christmas Parade.
You've never asked me to do
a Christmas story before.
For good reason.
You don't celebrate it.
I don't have the time.
I have winter travel stories
to do.
Stories you send me on.
OK, I can take the blame
for that.
Look, you are a terrific
travel writer.
You have this ability to be able
to drop in on a place
and zone in on the thing
that makes it special to
the person reading about it.
But then, when you leave,
you leave it behind.
Isn't that the job?
You not taking your experiences
on as a whole
to the next place you go?
It's beginning to show
in your writing.
Something's missing.
That's where third place
comes in.
I don't know what to say.
Say you'll go to New Mexico.
I don't get back as often
as I should.
The other shoe drops.
This sounds more like a story
that you could do better
than me.
You get to go home
and you love Christmas.
I have commitments or I would,
trust me.
I want you to go there and spend
a week on the ground.
That's a long parade.
I wanna push this blog as
the "Twelve Posts of Christmas".
You space them out how you need,
just end at Christmas day
with the parade.
A yule blog?
Exactly!
See? I knew you'd get
into the spirit.
I want you to discover
the magic of Christmas there
and hold onto it.
It'll be good for
all of your writing.
Do you trust me on this?
Of course I do.
Hey.
Are you UBER?
No, I'm Oscar.
Are you my ride?
Are there any taxis?
Not since Orlando's
horses retired.
Is there anyone I can call
to get a ride?
Yeah, absolutely.
It's 505-555-0184.
Hello, can I help you?
OK, very funny.
I need to get to the Carta
de Amor Bed and Breakfast.
Could you just point me
in the right direction?
Well, if you're staying
in town overnight
that is the place to be.
And I'm guessing
you're Caroline.
So you are here waiting for me.
Yeah.
My cousin Camilla asked me
to pick you up
and show you the town.
Take you to the B&B.
I'm Oscar Ortiz.
Can I ask why we had to go
through all that?
Why couldn't you just tell me
you were my ride?
What fun would that be?
You can put that on the floor
if you want.
Probably a lot more comfortable
for you.
That's OK.
I heard it wasn't that big
of a town.
It's huge to a lot of people.
Families are here, their lives.
I meant in physical size.
I know what you meant.
So this street that we're on
is the main parade route.
That's why you're here, right?
Yes sir, it is.
Must be some kind of parade.
Oh yeah.
It's the best parade
you'll ever experience.
And it's the 100th anniversary
this year.
The Christmas tree will be there
in a couple days.
That's also a pretty big deal.
That might make
a good blog post.
Sure, I guess.
I like to think it's more
than that.
It reminds me of the small town
I grew up in.
Everybody knows what
everybody else is doing.
You say that like
it's a bad thing.
I like to think it's better
than it being so big
that nobody cares.
You might want to see a bit more
of the world
before you make that judgement.
Does L.A. count?
I was there for 10 years.
L.A.?
Yeah.
Why would you come back here,
if you don't mind me asking?
My son.
Stability.
The fact that everyone knows
what everyone else is doing.
We just passed our school there.
We draw from two towns nearby.
How old is your son?
Sean is 12.
Here we are.
Carta de Amor bed and breakfast.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
One thing.
You're gonna meet
mama and Mr. C.
This is their place.
It has been for as long as
anyone can remember.
Mr. C bears a striking
resemblance to... you'll see.
We all kind of ignore it.
I've met my share of celebrities
in my line of work.
It'll be fine.
Great.
And just so you know,
everyone calls Mrs. C. "Mama".
Oscar!
Mama.
Camilla's guest is here.
Miss Williams.
Welcome to Carta de Amor.
You must be tired
after your trip.
Can I get you something
to drink or eat?
I would love some coffee.
White chocolate mocha?
We just have regular
coffee here.
Yeah, that works, too.
Thanks.
Come on in.
Pretty amazing, huh?
The rooms are just as nice.
Here you go.
Thank you.
Do you mind if I take
some pictures in here?
Of course, dear.
As many as you need.
I don't have any signal.
Is there no cell service here?
This area of town is kinda iffy.
They're gonna fix it
first of the year, I think.
Not very comforting.
Is there any WiFi?
No.
No TV's, either.
It's a quiet, reflective place
to relax, think.
To recharge.
What good is recharging
without a signal?
She means recharge yourself.
So no cell service, no Internet,
no WiFi.
Is there anywhere else in town
that has it?
I really need it to post
to my blog.
I think you'll find everything
you need here and more.
Thank you.
It's just for my work.
Our guest has arrived.
Told you.
We are so glad that you've come
to be with us
to celebrate Carta de Amor
Christmas.
Mama, we need to get
those decorations up.
Don't you worry, papa,
we're doing that this weekend.
Tree and all.
Sean and I will be here
to help, too.
Sean has been a really good boy
this year.
That he has, Mr. C.
I'm glad you noticed.
Well, I leave you in their
more than capable hands.
WiFi?
I really do need it.
You'll be fine.
There's WiFi down the street
at the school.
And at the diner.
And at my house, actually.
And you're welcome to use
any of those.
Thank you.
That's a relief.
And I will give you a WiFi tour
once you're settled.
Mama will give me a call.
Thank you.
OK.
I'll see you in a bit.
Can we get you some
milk and cookies?
You know what?
I would love some.
OK.
On the first post of Christmas,
welcome to Carta de Amor,
New Mexico.
It's not the Spanish Riviera,
the kind of place you're used
to me posting from.
I'm staying at a well-appointed
adobe style home,
which actually looks
a bit out of place
in this small town of 2,500.
They tell me that Christmas
is really big here.
I guess we'll just have
to wait and see.
Now, I'm going to relax,
forget where I am,
sink into this bed,
and dream about the sun-drenched
beaches of Mallorca.
Yep.
Now, to find the Internet
so I can actually post this.
I can't believe I brought
the wrong clothes.
Luckily for you
there is a pretty nice women's
clothing store in town.
Women come from all over
the county to shop there.
Really?
Yeah, it's not another planet.
Sorry.
That's OK.
I think I owe you an apology,
too.
I wasn't exactly Mr. Hospitality
earlier.
I'm willing to start
from scratch if you are.
I'll take that deal any time.
Hi, dad.
Hi, miss Williams.
I'm Sean Ortiz.
I've seen all your posts
on world vista
and I've even left comments.
I wanna be a writer, too.
You're that Sean.
I've seen every issue.
We all read it, and I guess when
you live in a place this small
it's our way of seeing
the world.
Well, that's the whole idea.
Your dad was kind enough to let
me come here and use the WiFi.
You wanna hook me up?
Sure. Right this way.
This is a really big deal
for him.
He has dreams of, well,
travelling and having your job,
actually, one day.
You OK with that?
Absolutely.
It's important to follow
your dreams.
I always tell him that.
Just have a back-up plan.
No worries.
I get it.
Thank you.
And there.
I connected you to the network
and I also made it
so that you never have to use
the password ever again.
Thank you, Sean.
I don't know.
The jury's still out.
Camilla told me she's not
a Christmas fan.
Come on, mama, be nice.
Hello, Caroline.
I'm Rita Ortiz.
My husband and Oscar's father,
Roberto, and I
are hoping you can stay
for dinner.
Can you?
I'd love to.
Dinner was amazing.
You eat like this all the time?
Rita has a golden touch
in the kitchen.
Stop. It's just dinner.
I would have moved home
from L.A. for this, too.
I'm sorry. I think I just
stepped in something.
Oscar tells us you don't have
any clothes.
Dad!
What did I do?
Josie has a really nice store
in town, women come...
Come from all over
to shop there.
Your son told me.
I could help you look around.
And afterwards I'd love to talk
about writing.
That'd be a big help.
You have a wonderful family,
and your son is great.
Yeah, Sean.
I'd be lost without him.
You don't have lights up.
I'm not a huge Christmas person,
but...
We have our traditions.
It's worth the wait.
But we were wondering...
OK, I was wondering,
why would Camilla send someone
who isn't really into Christmas
to cover the Christmas capital
of the world?
The world?
Yeah, the whole world.
Because she can?
Good morning, sweetheart.
Good morning, mama.
I would love some
of your coffee.
I can get some coffee
for you to go,
and we have breakfast for you,
just not here.
- Isn't this a bed and breakfast?
- It is.
Now, let's get you dressed and
down to the competition area.
I am dressed.
Competition?
It's where we're
serving breakfast.
Most of the town will be there.
Now, put your head down. I'll
try not to mess up your hair.
Please tell me what's going on.
You write about
your experiences, right?
So, do you want to experience
Carta de Amor Christmas?
This is the kick-off.
OK.
What is this?
I can't wear this.
Of course you can.
Now, we've got to go
or we'll be late.
What?!
What is going on?
Hey!
Mr. C. Can explain
while we walk.
Walk?
Well, we have to let everyone
see your poncho.
Yeah, OK.
Let me just grab my phone.
Look at that!
Many years ago we started
the Christmas season
with a traditional
ugly sweater contest.
Then one year Rudy Santos
wore one of these and won.
There were protests, naturally,
but the judges ruled it legal.
Well, that sounds pretty smart
of Rudy.
Soon everyone figured out
they had to have a poncho
to have a chance to win.
Now it's a Christmas
poncho contest.
We host it every year.
This is definitely
my second post.
I would love some pancakes,
please.
It is pretty hideous.
But yours isn't too bad, either.
Yeah, thanks.
It's the same as last year's.
But, unlike you,
I'm not trying to win.
Here, sit down.
I can't stay.
I'm on clean up.
Thank you.
Enjoy your meal.
Good morning.
Are you enjoying your stay
at the B&B?
I sure slept well.
Those beds are really nice.
Mr. C., it seems
so strange that...
You know, Oscar is the music
teacher for the district.
Bands, choirs, singing groups.
Music?
I had no idea.
What does he play?
If it has strings on it,
he can play it.
He was a big deal in L.A.
These are the best pancakes
I've ever tasted.
It's Sam, he's amazing.
You'll meet him.
You were asking about Oscar.
Oh, yes.
Music, that's what he was doing
in L.A.?
He was a successful
studio musician.
Albums, soundtracks.
You're kidding.
Why would he leave all that
to come back here?
I'm sorry, that came out wrong.
An honest question.
You should ask him.
Hi, everyone.
For those who don't know me,
I am Betty Johnson,
the school district librarian.
- Good morning.
If you want to know anything
about Carta de Amor history
Betty is the be all and end all.
Every detail.
Good to know.
Thank you, Sam.
Do you see where
that button is...?
Yeah.
That's Sam.
He made your breakfast.
A master chef and without
the formal training.
Is the restaurant in town his?
The diner?
Oh, no. He's the school
cafeteria cook.
What?!
It's time to announce
the finalists
for the poncho contest.
But before we do, our favourite
music teacher, Oscar Ortiz,
has something he wants to say.
Thank you, Betty.
Hi, everyone,
and Merry Christmas.
I just wanted to thank you all
for your generous donations
to the band uniform fund.
But I also know that
at this time of the year
your money needs to be spent
on your families.
I don't want any of this
to be a hardship.
So that's why I've decided
to suspend the money drive
until after the holidays.
That's pretty sweet.
He's always thinking about
everybody but himself.
And now our finalists:
Eddie Gonzales
and Jackie Martin!
And last, in a surprise choice,
but I saw this woman's poncho
in the food line and it
is truly horrible,
and the first outsider ever
to make the final three,
Caroline Williams!
Who? Who?
Oh, no.
Caroline is in town
to do a story
for Camilla Talamantes's
travel magazine.
I know a lot of you were
disheartened by her first post
but give her a chance.
You've been summoned.
You can't keep
your public waiting.
And the winner of $100, courtesy
of Carta de Amor hardware, is,
in an upset...
Caroline Williams!
I'm just as shocked
as you all are,
and I thank you.
But I think I would like
to donate my prize
to the band uniform fund.
Thanks.
Thank you, thank you...
Mighty good job.
Thank you, Betty.
You're welcome.
Congratulations.
Thank you.
Have a good evening.
You too.
Thank you.
I appreciate every dollar.
Well, it seemed like
the perfect thing to do.
And I didn't just do it
because everybody didn't like
my first post.
Well, you know, your first post
did leave a lot to be desired.
You talked about other places
you'd rather be.
You read it?
Oh yeah, I read it.
So did Sean.
He was... he was a little bit
disappointed, to be honest.
That wasn't my purpose.
I'll talk to Sean.
No, it's OK.
He knows that actions
speak louder than words.
But what you might wanna do
is try and get what
we're doing here.
I mean, it's our Christmas
traditions that...
that bring us together
and make us kinda unique,
I think.
So who were the judges, anyway?
Mama and Mr. C.
They cheated.
Hey, never judge the C’s.
It's a big rule around here.
OK, I have to ask you
about them.
Congratulations on your win!
Just let it go.
They rarely get things wrong.
Thank you.
So I'm gonna go grab Sean
but we'll be back later
to decorate the B&B.
You wanna help?
I know, Christmas isn't really
your thing,
but there might be another post.
Get you out of here sooner.
You're looking out for me, huh?
Yeah.
It'd be nice if you opened
your mind a little
and tried to enjoy Carta de Amor
for what it is
instead of what it isn't.
On the second post of Christmas
Carta de Amor gave me a
new tradition to experience.
The ugly Christmas poncho.
They've taken the ugly sweater
and re-spun it.
The whole town turns out
in their custom
ugly Christmas ponchos to crown
that year's Victor.
And, being a journalist
who always tries to live
what I'm reporting, I donned
a borrowed ugly poncho
and actually won
this year's crown.
Here's me, mortified.
Thanks for meeting me
on such short notice.
My pleasure.
So what do you wanna know?
History.
What makes Carta de Amor tick?
Can we start with the parade?
That seems to be
the biggest deal.
Nobody actually knows
how it started.
Really?
Does it matter?
This is a community
who's definition of ourselves
is in our Christmas celebration.
It's like we get a rebirth
every year.
I guess I...
Wrote a couple of blog posts
before understanding that?
Yeah.
I did.
But I'm going to try to be
more receptive.
I hope I haven't worn out
my welcome.
Christmas is all about
new starts.
You'll find everyone here
pretty forgiving.
One more question.
Where is the clothing store?
I have nothing to wear.
Josie's.
Come on, I'll take you.
That was fun.
It was a blast.
I can't believe her selection
for such a small...
Small town in the middle
of nowhere?
Sorry.
Don't be.
You stopped yourself.
That's an improvement.
It is.
And I genuinely enjoyed
your company.
And the history lesson.
That's what new friends
do together.
That they do.
OK, let it go.
Caroline, you're just in time.
And you got some
new clothes, too.
Very nice.
Thank you.
And since you're all here,
I wanted to apologize for not
being all in with Carta de Amor.
I would like another chance.
From you, too, Sean.
Do you wanna help us decorate
the tree?
I haven't... I haven't
decorated a tree
since I was a kid.
Don't you miss it?
You know, the smell of that tree
does bring back memories.
I love that smell.
Well, then decorate it.
Fulfill this plain
tree's destiny.
Come on.
OK.
No.
Maybe.
Yeah.
That felt good.
You know what?
Let's... let's do some more.
Way up.
Well, you got in the spirit.
That wasn't hard at all, was it?
I honestly enjoyed it.
It's been a long time.
We're going to the big tree
tomorrow night.
You could write about that.
Big tree?
Yeah.
Everyone who's there hangs
an ornament on it.
Something meaningful.
We'll have to get you
an ornament.
There's a shop in town...
Sean.
No, he's right.
My job is to participate
in what I'm covering.
So if everyone's hanging
an ornament then I will, too.
How about ornament shopping
with me?
Really?
Yeah, OK!
Great.
Caroline?
Would you like some more
hot chocolate?
Last call.
Yes, please.
Excuse me.
Can you play mom's song?
I'd really like to hear it.
Sure, buddy.
I'll go get your guitar.
On the third post of Christmas,
Carta de Amor reminded me
of the fun
I had as a child
decorating a tree,
going all out to let anyone
coming in know
there is no mistaking
the holidays are here.
Carta de Amor does have
its appeal.
That was wonderful.
They said you were good but...
Thanks.
It's a special song.
I could tell.
Do you wanna have
lunch tomorrow?
Both of you?
Sorry, we're making a float
for a parade, but thank you.
Well, I would love to.
But not at the diner.
There's somewhere else?
Yep.
I might need a ride.
I could call a taxi but I heard
the horse retired.
I think I could find you a ride.
How's noon?
That's great.
Thank you both
for a great night.
It was fun.
Yeah.
Well, I'm gonna take a walk
and see if I can find a signal
to post to my blog.
OK.
No place safer
than Carta de Amor.
See you tomorrow.
Noon.
OK, I think I officially
like her.
Mmmhmm.
Alright, your turn.
I really had a great
time decorating last night.
I watched you.
I could tell.
You need to pick something up
from the school?
Well, I promised you
a great lunch.
Here?
Yeah.
OK.
Yeah, I hope you're hungry.
I'm always hungry.
What's this?
Well, a much better lunch
than at the diner.
Hi.
Thank you.
Today's menu is a small
shrimp salad,
then my special chicken de amor,
followed by dessert.
That sounds lovely.
You have no idea.
So, what do you think?
I'm stunned.
You did make a lot
of yummy noises.
- Did I?
- Yeah.
What did you do to this chicken?
I'll be back with the dessert.
Thank you.
You didn't have to do this much.
I wanted to.
Your last post was different.
It was better.
Well, I wanna thank you
for being so honest with me.
Honesty is important.
I appreciate you being
so open to it.
Soloing and stuff, I just like
to play the bass.
Like, the rhythm.
No, you should though.
Last course.
This is so pretty
I'm afraid to eat it.
What's it called?
Platino Frito.
It's a traditional Christmas
dessert around here.
OK.
Can I take you home with me?
Enjoy!
I told you.
I mean, he's the best.
And this is the best.
Sure, I'd love to have
my own restaurant.
But it's all timing.
Baloney. It's all about Betty.
Betty? Librarian Betty?
My friend, Betty?
Your friend, Betty?
Yes, we have bonded.
OK, well, Sam and Betty
have been friends for years
and Betty has no idea
that Sam wants more.
You gotta tell her.
I can't risk it.
What if she doesn't feel
the same way?
Then I don't even have her
as a friend.
See, this is the same answer
he gives every time I ask.
Come on.
She's really smart
and really funny.
She's not gonna be
available forever.
Heck, just cook for her
like this!
That would work on me.
Yeah, but are you sure she
would like the school gym?
I don't know.
The beautiful table,
the exclusivity.
The food.
Company.
It's the holidays.
You keep talking about Christmas
like it's something special.
It's growing on me.
About time.
On the fourth post of Christmas
a surprise holiday meal
came to me.
It wasn't four calling birds
but a magical chicken dish
in a place you
wouldn't expect it.
A stealth master chef in
a cafeteria cook disguise
made me a yuletide lunch
of epic proportions.
I'm so sorry you all couldn't
have a bite of it,
but that's OK.
I wouldn't have shared it.
Hey, I'm singing
and playing Christmas songs
tomorrow night at
the lakeside inn.
Do you wanna come?
Another chance to hear you play.
I'm in.
Great.
Tonight, before
we light the tree,
everyone who comes
hangs their ornament on it.
Something meaningful.
I'm waiting for you to tell me
the wishes come true.
Some do. But some don't.
I can tell you that
from experience.
Maybe your wish will come true
this year.
So, letting the town decorate
the tree?
I never heard of that before.
It's nice.
Yeah.
So I'll see you around 8:00?
You're leaving?
I'm giving you some time
with Sean.
Just remember, pick
your ornament carefully.
- Something that represents...
- My Christmas wish.
Yeah.
Hi!
Sorry I'm late.
Hi.
I knew you'd be here.
Dad told you about the wishes?
In great detail.
You've gotta do it.
I do.
And you know, honestly,
when I first got here I just
wanted to report and go.
But I think there's something
special about this place.
Besides Christmas?
Including Christmas.
Alright, let's pick an ornament.
You'll have to do that
by yourself.
I'll be in the store,
but afterwards I would love
to talk about writing.
Deal.
Christmas.
On the fifth post of Christmas
I bought my first Christmas
ornament in years
with my new friend, Sean,
in anticipation of
the tree lighting tonight
in the town square here
in Carta de Amor.
Okay. Christmas or the world?
Christmas is
everywhere and believe it or not
I think I can actually
physically feel it.
It completely washes over you
and I'm beginning to understand
Carta de Amor's universal
Christmas spirit.
Did you find one?
I did.
I'm gonna go pay for this
and then let's go get some
ice cream and talk.
Will do.
Caroline Williams.
Caroline.
Valerie Warshaw,
global destinations magazine.
Ms. Warshaw,
yes.
You can just call me Valerie.
I was calling to let you know
how much we're enjoying
your Christmas blog here.
You mean my yule blog?
That's genius.
I hope you use it.
I plan to.
You know, this Carta de Amor
assignment
has turned out to be
very interesting.
Well, my friends are out
shopping for Christmas ponchos.
You did that.
Keep up the good work.
And I'll let you know
about the job soon.
It looks quite promising.
It's my dream job.
It's every travel reporter's
dream job.
Any-who, happy holidays if you
don't hear from me before that.
OK, thank you.
Did that really just happen?
So, what'd you choose this year,
Sean?
I'm gonna start as shortstop.
Hey, that is a good wish.
I notice you don't have
an ornament, Mr. C.
What'd I say?
All the ornaments are
my Christmas wishes.
Anybody wanna tell me
what that means?
Mine is the same as the last
eight years.
That's a good wish.
Yeah.
Mine is the same as Oscar's
because we both wish
for the same thing.
Peace for him.
Peace for Oscar?
Eight years since Judy passed.
Sean's mother.
That's why Oscar came home
from L.A.
Your turn.
What's your Christmas wish?
The world?
It's job related.
I know it seems small
compared to your wishes.
No.
Christmas wishes can be
anything you want.
Go hang it.
On the sixth post of
Christmas for this yule blog
I joined the people
of Carta de Amor
in hanging their Christmas
wishes on the community tree.
I know you all expect me
to join in
when I'm telling you
about some place,
but this time, whether I was
reporting it or not,
I'd hang my wish on this tree.
It's a night of hope and
community here in Carta de Amor,
with no one left unaffected
by it.
Including me.
Beautiful.
- Merry Christmas.
Can I go to my friend's house?
Yeah, of course.
If you need a ride home
you just let me know, OK?
I'll come get you.
Thanks.
Boy, that brings back memories.
The safety of a small town.
It's rare these days.
Oh yeah. When I was in L.A.
I was always on guard.
Do you miss it?
Yeah, I do sometimes.
Then I look at Sean
and I don't anymore.
Do you miss your small town?
I didn't.
But then I look around
at all this and I kinda do.
I guess we have something
in common after all.
Hey, I've got a signal.
I should probably go.
Yeah. Work.
It can wait.
It's a beautiful night.
Do you want to walk me back
to the B&B?
It would be my pleasure.
Hey, I'm so sorry
about your wife.
Nobody said life was fair.
You either curl up or you cope.
If I hadn't had Sean
to think about
I might have curled up.
You're a good dad.
Thanks. I try.
It's harder at Christmas.
To be honest, you're making
it easier this year.
I'm not sure what I've done.
You've exceeded my expectations.
Camilla said you needed
some help with Christmas spirit
but after a rough start...
You seem to be doing fine
on your own.
Your posts show it, too.
Well, if my posts show it,
it's because of you.
Your family.
I think it's in Carta de Amor's
DNA, honestly.
Yeah.
And I might have missed
Christmas a little.
Well.
I'm glad you're still reading
my posts.
Everybody in town is.
You're a celebrity now.
Not in the dog house anymore?
No.
OK, I really need to ask
you about him...
Hey, do you wanna
come over tomorrow?
There's a couple more Christmas
traditions I'd like to share.
Might be good for your blog.
But mostly because
I would like it.
I'd love to.
Just... just say when
and I'll be there.
Great.
Thank you.
Thanks for coming.
Dad's out planning with
the parade committee.
So, are you ready to cook?
Christmas cookies?
You should know my mother and I
were champs at it.
How are you at tamales?
Tamales?
Christmas tamales.
Yeah.
People come from far and wide
for my mom's tamales
at Christmas time.
I thought you might wanna watch.
Just watch?
No way.
Oh, really?
Wanna help?
Start shucking.
Like this.
This corn's pickled
and ready to grind.
Are you making masa
from scratch?
You know tamales?
I did a story last month
in Costa Rica,
but are you gonna grind
the corn yourself?
Nana said we're gonna do it
just like the Aztecs did,
with rocks.
OK, I'm in.
Where are the rocks?
This is my rock,
but I have to admit
I'm impressed you were up
for it.
I was joking.
What do you say about letting
Caroline and me finish these up?
I'm game if he is.
We could take a look
at my Christmas list.
You sure?
OK.
Christmas list it is.
This smells amazing.
I never get tired of that smell.
It takes me back to my
grandmother's kitchen.
Now I gotta get another spoon.
What?
Who needs a spoon?
OK!
It's on!
It's on!!
My-my mom is gonna be mad.
Just tell her it's my fault.
I think she's still mad at me
about that first blog post.
No.
Sometimes it's hard to combat
preconceived notions
but she'll come around.
I did.
Oh, you did, huh?
I have. Completely.
I always thought
you were trouble.
Oh yeah?
At first.
But today I know for a fact.
Sean.
What're you doing?
I think I should be the one
asking that question.
It's not what you think.
I think it was.
Doesn't sound like
cooking to me.
OK, out.
Go clean up, both of you.
I can't believe you did this
to my kitchen.
It's my kitchen.
I'll clean up.
We'll clean up.
I don't trust either one of you.
Out.
I need to salvage these tamales.
Your father is counting on them.
Me too.
Yeah, so am I.
OK, OK.
Dios mio.
Go ahead, eat sweetheart.
I could write an entire article
on these alone.
You should be making these
all year.
No. They only taste
like this at Christmas.
And it's only Christmas
when we get them.
And it's Christmas.
And I'm hungry.
Hey, that-that is mine.
I haven't had that much fun
in a long time.
Me neither.
But...
You want to slow it down.
For Sean, I get it.
No. No, actually Sean
seems fine.
It's my own conflicted feelings
I think.
I haven't felt these emotions
in a long time.
I'm not going anywhere.
At least not for a few days.
There's also that
to think about.
You think about that then.
I'll be thinking about you.
I'll see you tonight.
I can't wait to hear you
sing again.
Thank you, Sean.
On the seventh post of Christmas
Carta de Amor is gonna make
the Christmas cookie obsolete.
Introducing the Christmas
tamale.
It's a family tradition here
and one that I got
to participate in.
I wish that blog posts came
with scratch and sniff
because it smelled so good.
Only when the ingredients
are well mixed
can the tamales
come out perfectly.
Well, near perfection.
And... yum.
Hello?
It's Betty.
In your blog did you mean "yum"
for the tamales or for him?
Both.
Hey.
I'm so glad to see you here.
You too.
You're looking smoking hot.
I might be a tad overdressed.
If anyone thinks that,
they're just jealous.
I'm jealous.
He looks happy.
This is new?
This is new.
This is you.
What a night, huh?
As I look around at all
my friends, old and new,
I think we are the luckiest
people in the world
to be right here, right now.
There's nothing like a carta
de amor Christmas.
And there's no song like
this one to close out the night.
Thanks guys.
I think I'm just going to stick
around for a minute.
Yeah, that sounds great.
It's wonderful.
I was waiting for you
to play your song.
What song?
The song that you sang to Sean.
Yeah, that-that's Judy's song.
I don't really play it
in public anymore.
I didn't know.
I just like it.
Yeah, I...
I love it, too.
But it's reserved.
OK.
Yeah, I get it.
Do you wanna grab a coffee
or something?
Maybe not tonight.
I'm tired, you know.
Yeah, OK.
See you later.
Caroline.
Does that offer for coffee
still stand?
Of course.
Thanks.
You found me a white
chocolate mocha?
Yeah, I pay attention.
Thank you for both.
The coffee and for paying
attention.
Sorry for back at the inn.
That was so rude.
I get it.
It's that song.
This time of the year.
The guilt.
You.
I like being with you, too.
How'd you know
that's what I meant?
I'm a writer.
I understand subtext.
Wherever it goes...
I'm happy right now.
Me too.
To Christmas and the joy
that it brings.
May this Christmas bring you
peace and love.
I like that.
So no coal for any of us
this year?
No coal.
No coal, indeed.
Merry Christmas.
I want you to help me put out
Christmas lights tomorrow
at my house.
Sam usually helps me.
Speaking of Sam, don't
you think that Christmas
is the perfect time for him to
finally tell Betty how he feels?
You should tell him.
Well, you know, sometimes
it's hard to tell someone...
Special how you really feel.
So you wanna help me
with the lights?
I can't think of anything
I'd rather do.
This is going to be such
a Merry Christmas.
It already is.
On the eighth post of Christmas
this city of Carta de Amor
gets more serious about
their Christmas celebrations,
if that's possible.
Getting ready for a big parade
that I cannot wait to see,
I helped my friend Sean
decorate their float.
Christmas is in full swing here
in Carta de Amor.
Hey.
Hi.
Do you want me to grab
the ladder?
I used to do that for my dad
when we'd put up lights.
That's very sweet but
we don't need the ladder.
How are we gonna
put the lights up, then?
They don't go up.
They go down.
On the ground.
What kind of Christmas lights
go down on the ground?
The most meaningful kind.
Wait here.
I'm completely mystified.
In the late 1800's
at Christmastime
the locals marked the paths
of their houses
with small, controlled bonfires
to light the way
for the holy family.
The invention of the paper bag
changed everything.
Pass me a candle, please.
We do this to honour
the tradition,
and it also saves us from having
to buy wood for the fires.
It's probably safer, too.
And there's that.
We call them farolitos.
Some people call
them luminarias.
I like farolitos.
Do you wanna help me
light the path?
Are you kidding?
I'd love to.
There aren't words.
I never get tired of it.
In fact, I missed it
when I was in L.A.
Greendale was Christmas
light central.
Not like this.
But I didn't realize I missed it
until tonight.
No one is getting lost tonight,
either.
Or until Christmas.
Can we walk and see them all?
Of course.
I'm gonna grab a jacket.
Do you need anything?
No, thanks.
I'm gonna post
to the blog first.
This is so amazing I don't wanna
be thinking about work
while we look at them.
OK. I'll be right back.
On the ninth post of Christmas
I was part of something
wonderful and amazing.
These are farolitos.
Luminarias.
A Christmas light significant
to those here in Carta de Amor.
I got to make them, light them,
place them.
It was... magic.
I may have lost my way to
the holidays over the years
but these lights will never
let me lose my way
to Christmas ever again.
Christmas in Carta de Amor.
You know,
when I left Greendale
I really did leave
Christmas behind.
Yeah?
It took coming back
to another small town
to find it again, I think.
You think?
I know.
Hey, you wanna go check
on our Christmas wishes?
Everyone goes back
to the tree over the holidays
to check their wish.
You have a lot of Christmas
traditions here
to keep track of.
Yeah, I never really thought
of it before
but I guess you're right.
Are you taking your wish
off the tree?
No, never.
It's just... every year
I put my wish for a restaurant
on the tree.
And this year...
Sam?
Is that Betty?
Catch you later.
No, you're not going
anywhere, buster.
- Hi.
I guess I wasn't the only one
with this idea.
I guess not.
Which one is yours?
OK, time for a Christmas
miracle.
This one is Sam's and it's you.
I'm crazy about you.
I was afraid if you didn't feel
the same way
I'd lose you as a friend.
Me too.
Christmas wishes coming true.
You made mine come true, too.
How?
I've been looking for some peace
in my life
and I have not felt this much
in years.
Thank you.
It's been a long time
since I felt this comfortable
with anyone or any place, too.
It's all so special.
Yeah.
Spend Christmas Eve with me.
With my family.
I'd be honoured.
Betty and Sam found each other
in the light of the community
Christmas tree.
Christmas wishes coming true.
I wish you were all here
to share it with me.
You really should come.
It can't be described in words.
OMG I think I might have
writer's block.
It's Christmas Eve tomorrow
and for the first time
in years and years I'm actually
excited by the idea.
And if it's even a fraction
of what I've experienced so far
it will be beyond wonderful.
Good morning.
I can't believe I slept so late.
I guess I missed breakfast, huh?
I'm sure I can find
you something.
You've been so nice.
Both of you.
I'm actually going dress
shopping for tonight with Betty.
I'm spending it at Oscar's.
What do you do on Christmas Eve?
I'll be at Oscar's with you.
I'm so glad you're both coming.
Just me.
Everyone knows Mr. C.
has a standing engagement
on Christmas Eve.
Of course he does.
Probably a small trip around
the world with some reindeer.
Yes, Betty, I am still
very excited about tonight.
Caroline?
Ms. Warshaw.
I mean, Valerie.
I
- I wasn't expecting...
I thought I'd give you
an early gift.
The dream job's yours.
We'll spend the first week
going over your package
and then it's off to London
for your coming out
at the London expo.
Of course, that's
after new year's.
I'm stunned.
I... I thought you'd be out
for the holidays.
I just... I wasn't expecting
to hear from you so soon.
Oh, dear.
I'm much too busy to worry
about Christmas.
And you will be, too, soon.
Are you there?
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, of course.
I'm just...
So I'll see you in New York.
Tomorrow.
On Christmas?
Of course, yes.
On the 26th then.
Bright and early.
See you then.
It's just-I’m-I'm in
New Mexico so I...
Hello? Valerie?
You OK?
Yeah.
I'm just thinking about
some work stuff.
Don't think about work tonight.
It's Christmas Eve.
Besides, we still have my
favourite tradition to go.
The parade, that's mine.
Mine is the Christmas wishes
on the tree.
Well, you do have a lot of
traditions here to choose from.
Have you figured out which
is your favourite one yet?
Let her experience them all,
mama.
And tonight's mine.
OK. I give.
What happens tonight?
Well, we... we remember
and honour loved ones
who aren't here to share this
with us.
Really?
Yeah.
And that way we're still sharing
Christmas with them.
That's beautiful.
I like this one.
I'd like to talk about mom.
I- I do miss mom a little bit,
but that's OK
'cause I know she's here
with us on Christmas
and that's all that matters
to me.
I'd like to go next.
Best memories of Tommy Rowland,
a quality man.
We spent the best Christmases
of our lives together
and he also did one thing for me
that I'll always be
grateful for.
When he was principal he hired
Betty to be librarian.
I wish he was here
to see us together.
Me too.
That was great, Sam.
So, who's next?
This is gonna be a good night.
...and then he almost fell
in the fishing hole,
but instead the dog went in
and everybody got wet!
I don't understand!
Abuelita Pilar
only spoke Spanish.
Abuelita.
Yeah, grandma.
She used to pad around
the kitchen in her slippers.
She always had hot chocolate,
or chocolate milk for us kids.
And hugs.
Lots of hugs.
Camilla!
I would have picked you up.
Orlando took his horses
out of retirement for me.
That's a real thing?
Yeah.
You've assimilated well.
Just doing my job.
No, that's not true.
I'm here because
I wanna be here.
And I wanna say something
to all of you.
I would like to say...
Merry Christmas!
Merry Christmas.
Merry Christmas, sweetheart.
Thank you.
Caroline, your posts from here
have been incredible for us.
That thing that makes
your writing special?
It's back.
Thank you.
There's a bonus coming.
Thank you, Camilla, but I really
need to talk to you in private.
If it's about business it
can wait until after Christmas.
I don't do business
at Christmas.
And neither should you.
Now, I'm tired.
I'll see you at the parade?
Goodnight, Camilla.
Thank you.
For what?
You said "Merry Christmas".
I haven't heard you say
that before.
I have, too.
Haven't I?
No.
Look, I know it's been
a whirlwind,
but before school starts
and I have to go back to work,
let's go to Santa Fe
for new year's.
It's really special there.
Or... you know,
forget that for now.
Do you wanna ride in my truck
tomorrow in the parade?
Hey.
Hey, what's the matter?
My wish on the tree,
it came true.
The world?
I got the job I've always wanted
and I have to be in New York
on the 26th.
That means you have to leave...
- Tomorrow.
Yeah, well...
What was I thinking?
Of course you have to leave.
You have a career.
I'm really happy for you.
I'm sorry.
No. No, don't be.
I'm telling you the same thing
I tell Sean.
You have to follow your dreams.
Always do what's in your heart.
Do you want a ride to the train...
I am really torn here
and you need to know that.
Yeah.
I've waited my whole life
for this job and... you...
Well, it's...
I'll be back.
We both know that you won't.
I really appreciate everything
you've done for the town
and for me.
You got me breathing again.
Tell Sean...
Yeah. Yeah, I'll tell him.
Well, it's late.
And it's Christmas.
Merry Christmas, Caroline.
Merry Christmas, Oscar.
Need a ride?
I was gonna walk.
Let me give you a ride.
I'll get my keys.
You spent all Christmas day
in your room.
That's not good.
I'm not in a celebrating mood.
I figured.
Why we left you alone.
People all out for the parade.
I hope it's a good one.
It's never a good one.
They last maybe 15 minutes.
Some old trucks all decorated
with crepe paper as floats.
Some of the kids from Oscar's
marching band.
Some dogs dressed up in
their Christmas finest.
What?
But I thought...
You thought it's like the ones
in San Francisco?
No.
It's small, but it's ours.
Genuinely ours.
That's what makes it so special.
But if that's all that it is
why did Camilla send me here?
She knew that you needed
to be here.
To soak in our Christmas.
You're not leaving Christmas
behind this time, are you?
You're taking it with you?
Absolutely, I'm taking it
with me.
OK, I have to ask you.
Are you Santa Claus?
No.
Of course not.
What made you think that?
Are you kidding?
Everything!
You were gone last night
and, according to everyone,
every Christmas Eve.
I serve food at the food kitchen
in Dorry every Christmas Eve.
I do play Santa for the kids.
Here we are.
Thank you for the ride.
Thank you for being here.
For your talent.
For honouring our town
with your words.
For opening yourself up to what
Christmas can be if you let it.
I know what Christmas
can be now.
Even the magic?
Especially the magic.
Good.
One more thing.
Merry Christmas.
I can't.
Thank you.
Not Santa, huh?
On the 11th post of Christmas
I wait to leave Carta de Amor.
If there was ever a town
that lived up to its name
it's this one.
Love letter.
A love letter to its wonderful
townsfolk.
Its traditions.
A huge love letter to Christmas.
A town that embraces you
from the minute you arrive
and means it.
I have taken you with me
to a lot of places in the past
but this is the one
I'm taking with me.
It's Caroline Williams!
That is awful.
Congratulations.
What's going on here?
Oh, well we're here
for the parade
that you asked us to come
to see.
I did?
You said on your blog you wish
we could all experience it
for ourselves so we're here.
I was gonna spend
another Christmas alone
until you invited me.
You didn't all come together?
No.
You'd better get going or
you're gonna miss the parade.
Are you coming?
Hey.
Where did you buy those antlers?
Merry Christmas!
Hey you're late.
Parade's over.
Merry Christmas!
Caroline.
Hi, mister.
Want a ride?
You bet.
But give me a second first, OK?
- OK.
- Alright.
Can you do me a favour?
Thank you.
I love that you're here...
What happened?
I changed my Christmas wish.
Your dream job?
My dream job didn't
include Christmas.
Or you.
And that's a deal breaker.
Oscar, your song.
But I
-I thought...
I know, but it's time to play it
in public.
Hey.
I think I'm getting a signal.
You definitely are.
On the 12th post of Christmas,
my final post of this yule blog,
I witnessed the greatest
Christmas Parade of all.
Real people showing true love
for the season
and letting everyone know.
Anyone can march,
anyone can watch.
And Christmas wishes
really do come true.
I got my real dream job.
Camilla and I made a new deal.
I can work from Carta de Amor
and travel when I need to.
It's a great train ride.
But you can be sure
I'll be taking Christmas
and Carta de Amor
everywhere I go.
Merry Christmas, everybody.
RIP-FIXES-SYNC
by VaVooM